README.md, before:

# DIY-DNS-DeAdification
Pi-hole based DNS server for network wide ad blocking 

---

## VM Creation 

1) Logged into ProxMox on port 8006
2) Created a new VM with
- **ubuntu-22.04.5-live-server-amd64.iso** (LTS)
- **VirtIO SCSI Single** SCSI controller
- **Quemu Agent** enabled
- **32GiB** disk size
- **1 socket** with **2 cores**
- **2048MiB** of memory

<img width="666" height="491" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a09a5eb1-bef1-4b98-b647-d2b5d43113fa" /> 

--- 

## Ubuntu Bios 

1) Added the following server information: 
- **Your name:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Your server's name:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Username:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Password:** diy-dns-deadification [TEMPORARY]

2) Installed SSH

--- 

## SSH into VM 

1) Open a termainal e.g command prompt
2) SSH command
```bash
ssh diy-dns-deadification@diy-dns-deadification
```

3) Add fingerprint if prompted
4) Enter password
5) Et voila

--- 

## Update Packages 

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

--- 

## Installing Pi-hole 

[Pi-hole's website](https://pi-hole.net/) leads to its [GitHub repo](https://github.com/pi-hole/pi-hole/#one-step-automated-install) for installation - from which, to install Pi-hole: 

1) Quick install 
```bash
curl -sSL https://install.pi-hole.net | bash
```
2) Static IP assigned later! Continue the installation without static IP for now
3) Use **Cloudflare (DNSSEC)** upstream DNS provider
4) **Yes** to using third party lists for ad blocking

--- 

## Pi-hole DNS Details 

- **IPv4:** 192.168.1.142
- **IPv6:** 2a0a:ef40:14de:2001:be24:11ff:fe6a:93bc
- **Web interface:** http://pi.hole:80/admin OR http://192.168.1.142:80/admin
- **Admin webpage login password:** Ohg0ygQQ [TEMPORARY] 

---

## Changing Router's DNS Settings 

1) Going to my (Vodafone) router's admin page @ **192.168.1.1**
2) Turning on **Expert Mode**
3) Going to **Internet** -> **DNS & DDNS**
4) Selecting **Manually** for **DNS configuration**
5) **Domain Name Server (DNS) Address** = 192.168.1.42 (IP OF PI HOLE DNS)
6) **Secondary DNS Address (optional)** = 1.1.1.1 (CLOUDFLARE PUBLIC DNS)
7) **Apply** to save changes

Commit message:

Assigning static IP to pi hole DNS

README.md, after:

# DIY-DNS-DeAdification
Pi-hole based DNS server for network wide ad blocking 

---

## VM Creation 

1) Logged into ProxMox on port 8006
2) Created a new VM with
- **ubuntu-22.04.5-live-server-amd64.iso** (LTS)
- **VirtIO SCSI Single** SCSI controller
- **Quemu Agent** enabled
- **32GiB** disk size
- **1 socket** with **2 cores**
- **2048MiB** of memory

<img width="666" height="491" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a09a5eb1-bef1-4b98-b647-d2b5d43113fa" /> 

--- 

## Ubuntu Bios 

1) Added the following server information: 
- **Your name:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Your server's name:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Username:** diy-dns-deadification
- **Password:** diy-dns-deadification [TEMPORARY]

2) Installed SSH

--- 

## SSH into VM 

1) Open a termainal e.g command prompt
2) SSH command
```bash
ssh diy-dns-deadification@diy-dns-deadification
```

3) Add fingerprint if prompted
4) Enter password
5) Et voila

--- 

## Update Packages 

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

--- 

## Installing Pi-hole 

[Pi-hole's website](https://pi-hole.net/) leads to its [GitHub repo](https://github.com/pi-hole/pi-hole/#one-step-automated-install) for installation - from which, to install Pi-hole: 

1) Quick install 
```bash
curl -sSL https://install.pi-hole.net | bash
```
2) Static IP assigned later! Continue the installation without static IP for now
3) Use **Cloudflare (DNSSEC)** upstream DNS provider
4) **Yes** to using third party lists for ad blocking

--- 

## Pi-hole DNS Details 

- **IPv4:** 192.168.1.142
- **IPv6:** 2a0a:ef40:14de:2001:be24:11ff:fe6a:93bc
- **Web interface:** http://pi.hole:80/admin OR http://192.168.1.142:80/admin
- **Admin webpage login password:** Ohg0ygQQ [TEMPORARY] 

---

## Changing Router's DNS Settings 

1) Logging into my (Vodafone) router's admin page @ **192.168.1.1**
2) Turning on **Expert Mode**
3) Going to **Internet** -> **DNS & DDNS**
4) Selecting **Manually** for **DNS configuration**
5) **Domain Name Server (DNS) Address** = 192.168.1.142 (IP OF PI HOLE DNS)
6) **Secondary DNS Address (optional)** = 1.1.1.1 (CLOUDFLARE PUBLIC DNS)
7) **Apply** to save changes 

---

## Assigning a Static IP to the Pi-hole DNS 

1) Logging into my (Vodafone) router's admin page @ **192.168.1.1**
2) Turning on **Expert Mode**
3) Going to **Settings** -> **Local Network**
4) Scroll down to **Static DHCPv4 - Local Network**
5) Adding **diy-dns-deadification** from dropdown
6) Ensuring its static IP is set to **192.168.1.142**
7) **Apply** to save changes

---
